(Note: Not talking about Entities in a strict ECS sense, more of a "unit of meaning" thing)
## Hierarchies and meaning
Many times in Unity I will use empty gameobjects and parenting as a way of organizing the components relating to an entity, rather than utilizing a transform parent child relation. An example is listing multiple hitboxes under a single "Hitbox Parent" object, as it allows me to collapse those objects when not dealing with them. Other times, the exact hierarchy isn't known, and I do not want to enforce it. An example is the explosion object in WhenPushComesToShove. It is done generically, and implemented in its own contained object so any entity can explode. 
## "Root" Object
There are times when we need to know what "root" a component is meaningfully attached to. I don't care that the hitbox script is attached to a gameobject named "Hitbox", I need to know which player it belongs to. Hitboxes also need to know which hurtboxes are owned by its entity, and as such avoid them. In these cases its helpful to define a "root" object, that represents the whole, complete entity the component is contributing towards. 
## Defining Entity
In this sense I am defining entities as a collection of components, along with a unique ID. Two players are the same type of entity, but not the same entity. The components defines its behavior, while its ID defines its originality. The reason having a single root is important in many cases is that it allows me to use components in entities with varying complexity. Taking explosion as an example, it destroys the entity it is attached to when it is triggered. A bomb is likely just a very thin wrapper on this component, but a player handles many other functions, and as such its hierarchy is likely very different. Defining a rootObject allows me to delete that entity with its children without assuming anything about the transform hierarchy relationship of that entity to the component.
