# Description
This game called for local multiplayer, where the player's roles were asymmetric. We ended up landing on a game where 2 players work together to get a player character to the end of a level. The player on the mouse would place blocks, filling out the level, while the keyboard player controlled the platformer. The goal was to complete the levels as quickly as possible. 

## Brainstorming
Brainstorming, like usual, was tough for this game. I love local multiplayer, and can come up with a million game ideas off that alone, but the asymmetric roles requirement really threw me for a loop. We were discussing games with a setup phase and a gameplay phase, that pit two players against each other. One of the main issues we were having with those ideas was that there wasn't a good way to keep information hidden to one player and exposed to another. The ways we suggested tackling this was to have one player at a time at the keyboard and another player away from the screen turned around. This just seemed awkward, and the transfer of keyboard players felt like it would ruin pacing or flow. (As a side note, one of the other games did this transfer, and it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. The game itself had a miriad of other issues that may have been distracting, and was a strategy turn by turn game, but still). Eventually the idea came to me to make it cooperative, and have the setup and playing phase happen at the same time. 
## Designing for a Moment
I had this moment in mind that was what really sold me on the idea when i first came up with it. I wanted a player to jump into a gap before a platform had been placed, trusting that their partner will place it in time to keep everything going. 