# Description 
Game 4 had to have an in-game economy of some kind, in addition to a way to use real money to impact the gameplay. We landed on a game where you bet on gladitorial matches, using information gotten from rumors or payed for. There are 3 factions that a gladiator can belong to, and the player has to manage their reputation with each group.
## Brainstorming
I believe the original idea started as a multiplayer game where two players arm separate gladiators, adn then have them fight. We ran into issues with this idea, as we wanted to do things with spies, getting information about the other players fighter, but still have it be local multiplayer. We then tossed around the idea of having the player play against an AI, but decided against it. Finally we landed on having both fighters be determined by an AI, and have the player find information about the fighters, betting on who they think would win.
## Design
As a small, contained experience, I think this was designed well. It could be extended, but I don't know if there is enough substance to justify it. Many players didn't care much about the reputation, or their games didn't last long enough for it to matter. Similar to playing Poker without real money, the motivation to just have more fake money simply isn't very strong. Many players bet it all on something very quickly, losing all their money in a couple minutes. The game could function well as a minigame of sorts, letting the other parts of the larger game give weight to the money, and as such add the stakes. 
