# Description 
Game 6 had to have a central meaning that the game is designed around. In our game, you draw something while aliens critique your painting, commenting on the color, brush strokes, etc.
## Brainstorming
As always with these things, I really struggled to come up with game ideas. Eventually this game came from my experiences when I try to draw things. I would come up with a simple design, and then add a bit, modify it some more, and come out the other end with something that looks worse then it started. Eventually the idea kinda morphed into trying to teach the players to ignore the noise of other people critiquing their work, and make something they want to make.
## Design
We start the game with a info blurb stating that we have machine learning in the game, and the algorithm will take in your drawing and produce an aesthetic score for you to improve your paintings with. The algorithm will also produce actionable feedback. This is of course a lie, the feedback and the score were completely random. The aliens would give feedback randomly, and sometimes add an afterthought, such as a suggestion of what they should have done. The goal here was to get the player to eventually realize that the feedback was contradictory, and learn to ignore it. Typically though, players saw right through the ruse, and as such just ignored the feedback from the start.
 ### Likes and Dislikes
 Simkins suggested we pivot to a system where the aliens actually do have preferences, and as such the score is not random. In this system, the aliens are consistent within themselves, but can be contradictory when compared to the other aliens. In this way, players can actually try to play to the critics, and when they do they actually get rewarded with a good score. But, they were just trying to impress a critic, not drawing something they wanted to draw. I think the two designs are going for different things, but the benefit of this design is that it isn't useless once someone sees through the lie.