# Description 
This game had to be an analog game. Our game consisted of slapping one or two cards that could be used to make a randomly generated number (1-13). To make a number you could use any elementary operation (Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, and Division ). The last player left who had not slapped any valid cards was left out, and gets no cards. Once all the cards have been taken, the game is over. Each player tallies their cards, and the player with the most cards wins the match. 

## Brainstorming
I had a really tough time coming up with ideas for this one. I had the idea to use the elementary operations with playing cards, mostly because I didn't want to make custom cards for anything. It took a while to get to the speed game, it kinda just came to me while we were playtesting another, not fun version of the game. 

## Design
The design is a pretty easy one, taking the Do Something Simple Quickly and In a Group idea. The math is actually fairly difficult to do on the spot when you first start out, but it gets easier as you go. Addition is by far the most utilized, the other operations really only being used towards the middle end of the game when its more important to be clever. Finding ways to add to the design was very tough, as its simplicity was its strength. Its worth noting that I don't think this is the case with all Do Something Simple Quickly games, but likely most analog games of this type. From a players perspective, adding an extra feature or component to a video game can be relatively easy. All you have to do is describe what the feature does/how to activate it. When it comes to analog games, anything added has to be tracked and implemented by the players themselves. This messes with the easy to understand and speed of the game. 