# Description
This game called for local multiplayer, where the player's roles were asymmetric. We ended up landing on a game where 2 players work together to get a player character to the end of a level. The player on the mouse would place blocks, filling out the level, while the keyboard player controlled the platformer. The goal was to complete the levels as quickly as possible. 

## Brainstorming
Brainstorming, like usual, was tough for this game. I love local multiplayer, and can come up with a million game ideas off that alone, but the asymmetric roles requirement really threw me for a loop. We were discussing games with a setup phase and a gameplay phase, that pit two players against each other. One of the main issues we were having with those ideas was that there wasn't a good way to keep information hidden to one player and exposed to another. The ways we suggested tackling this was to have one player at a time at the keyboard and another player away from the screen turned around. This just seemed awkward, and the transfer of keyboard players felt like it would ruin pacing or flow. (As a side note, one of the other games did this transfer, and it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. The game itself had a miriad of other issues that may have been distracting, and was a strategy turn by turn game, but still). Eventually the idea came to me to make it cooperative, and have the setup and playing phase happen at the same time. 
## Designing for a Moment
I had this moment in mind that was what really sold me on the idea when i first came up with it. I wanted a player to jump into a gap before a platform had been placed, trusting that their partner will place it in time to keep everything going. Unfortunately, this just didn't work out. That kind of timing is just far to hard to pull off, and really rarely neccessary. That being said, the decisions we made based on this design mentality were good ones, such as incentivizing players to move quickly added alot of panic and fun to the game. Having the available blocks to be placed randomized, tetris style went against this design moment, but was neccessary to prevent placers from buiding a straight path
## Cooperation Takes Time
As I talked about, there was a fairly lengthy delay for between players, which caused the platformer to sit still often, waiting for the placer to fill out a safe path. Part of this is due to that cooperation delay, the platformer doesn't quite know what the placer will do, and doesn't really trust them to do it right either. In some places, this slows the game down, which is a disincentive, but only if the player actually cares about their speed. On the last level however, the players on a real clock, if they don't move fast enough they cannot complete the level. This leads to a fun nervousness of the platformer either sitting there anxiously waiting, or moving too early because they have no choice.
## Either its dangerous or you jump on it
One of the main problems with this design is that there really isn't that many interesting things for the placer to place. This is mainly because a platformer doesn't on its own have many ways to interact with the environment. Either you jump on it, or it kills you, or both. As such, I could really only come up with 3 placeable objects without adding entirely new mechanics to the platformer. This problem of coming up with a system first assuming content creation will be simple and easy is a reoccuring problem I have, and is worth exploring on its own.