## Unique Idea
---
Raft's idea of a crafting game in which you pick up materials from the ocean and expand your tiny raft is a really interesting one. Unfortunately, it seems once you have played only a couple hours, the game almost entirely abandons its idea. You collect the basic materials from the ocean, but then all your progression becomes about the islands you find along the way. All progression is based on these islands, which to me seems counter to the games beginning premise. I do not think it would be that difficult to say that certain hooks can hook certain high level materials, or that you need to upgrade your boat to go into more dangerous waters for better items. 
## Your build does not matter
---
### Basic Rules
The basic rules for building your raft aren't super difficult to figure out. Keep important things in the center to avoid the shark. Try to keep things aligned in one direction to allow for easy access. Put your nets in an L shape. Beyond that, there really isn't much else to optomize or improve. You could argue that keeping your boat compact allows for easier defense against the shark, but honestly it feels like a weak benefit.
### Wandering Aimlessly for Islands
Progression is based on islands, but there really isn't a way to get to islands faster or more efficiently. Multiple sails do not stack, there's no way to tell where an island will be, and chances that an island will actually have useful resources are unknowable and unchangable.
## The Grind
---
The grind in this game is intense, particularly the first hour. Constantly on the edge, running between water and food. Its stressful, but it is pretty fun, and a huge relief when upgrades are made and you are slightly less on the edge the whole game. That being said, its all still very labor intensive, and you need so much water and food that you can't really stop cycling food and water for more than say 20 minutes. Its fun when its life or death, but really its what you are spending your time doing for 80% of the game so far (4 hours in). I think it helps break up the monotony a bit of how long it takes to find an island so I'm not entirely sure how I feel about its inclusion, but I think it definitely needs some tuning. I'm sure later in the game it gets easier to actually stockpile food, but for now there really isn't a way to optomize for food generation. Or water generation. Or plank collection. Or really anything.
## Exploration
---
It seems throughout the game the main point isn't the raft or even crafting, its exploration. I think this is fine, but they don't really offer any ways to get better at exploring or even any unique challenges relating to navigating? Perhaps some more advanced sailing techniques, or having to navigate around rocks, really just anything would be nice when the game seems to be based around exploration.
## Suggestions
---
I would love to see the raft building aspect much more emphasized. Come up with unique ways for getting higher level materials out of the ocean, rather than islands (large lobster style nets that drag for better fish, magnets to drag near the ocean floor for metals, etc). Additionally, if we could have actual raft combat that would be very fun. Let me shoot cannons at rival rafts, board their rafts and fight, give me a reason to build my raft in a specific way. And I mean come on sails should stack, make a real wind system and have me spend my time sailing rather than mindlessly grinding food and water. This may be a personal preference, but very little progression should be based upon islands, they should be nice bonuses, or progression along side-lines. I might even be ok with needed resources from an island to jump start getting better items from the ocean, I just wish it wasn't such a large part of the mid game.
## Overall, its still somewhat fun
--- 
I would probably never play it alone, but it is still fun as a multiplayer game. The roles may be a bit boring, but with a large crew it is a legitimate challenge to survive, and there are relieving moments when things progress a bit. I think the fact that I am playing it with friends, as well as the general joy of progression still allows me to enjoy playing the game, but it certainly has its problems. I am also willing to keep pushing through to hope that the game gets better as it goes on, but I will need to understand that it goes in a different direction than I may have hoped

