--- 
Pawnbarian is a mobile puzzle game based on chess. You have to kill enemies, who have interesting attributes, using decks of chess pieces to move. The cards can have additions to them, such as striking in cardinal directions or granting an extra move. It is along the same path as [[Dicey Dungeon]] and [[Void Tyrant]], adding on a card element to a basic, traditional game. I do think it falls short of these other games, being more puzzle than card game (not that I think they were trying to make a card game). 
## More puzzle than cards
--- 
I think one of the frustrating bits with this game is that it hints, pretty hard, at being a complex card game. You even add extras to your cards, building a deck as you run through the dungeon. But in the end, your combo abilities are pretty much nonexistent. The additional abilities on cards are a good and needed part of the game, and some of the dungeons are built around them, but its not particularly deep. There is no combo potential, save *kinda* cantrip. Cantrip lets you take another action, which is great! Its fun to bounce around the board taking 5 moves when you really should be taking 2. The game gives you this fun power, but all but takes it away by introducing enemies that get abilities when you use a cantrip. In the golem floor, you basically can't use it as every floor is chock full of these enemies. 
### Enemy attributes
Enemies have all sorts of interesting attributes, such as not being able to be hit when the player is right next to them, activating cantrip effects on death, pulling the player towards them on death, etc. Using this, the puzzle makers get to have fun putting together combos. 
- You kill an enemy with cantrip on death effect, half the board moves, another half attacks, and a new enemy is spawned. 
- A boss enemy can't be killed until they are the last enemy standing, and they spawn an enemy every time they move. You have to line it up so that you kill the enemy spawned with one move, and the boss with the other move
- An enemy with void grasp, but that also evades the first attack if able. If you try to pin them on the wall, they will void grasp you into that wall, causing you to take damage. Only way to deal with them without taking damage is landing on their square to make them dodge, and hoping the other card can let you hit in that direction.
The player gets to do basically none of this. Its almost like I am playing a puzzle game, while the developers get to play a card game.
### Deckbuilding
Part of what makes this game seem like a card game is that you build out your deck as you go through the dungeons by adding extra effects to your cards. Perhaps I haven't dove deep enough into the strategy of the game, but it does not seem to be a very interesting choice most the time. If you aren't facing golems, you should be taking cantrips. If you are, take striking damage or shields. If you are facing blight, get purify and shields. Even then, you aren't changing the main structure of your deck. The knight templar gives you a free cantrip if you use two knights on your turn. But you can't do anything to make it more likley you draw a knight, the best you can do is add more effects to your knight to make it more likely that they are useful enough to both be used on the off chance you end up with two knights in your hand. There just isn't enough depth or synergy for deckbuilding to be particularly interesting
### Playing it safe, limited options
These puzzles are pretty damn hard. Going into the boss with less than near full health is almost always a loss. Unfortunately, what I want to do is dive in and get 4 kills with my cool plus-sign attack knight. What instead happens is that a goblin dodges the knight diagonally, so my plus-sign strike doesn't follow up and hit him. The enemy to my right is a brawler, so he can't be killed because now I am standing next to him, so now I got two kills, but took two damage in return. Oh, and I couldn't use a cantrip to get out of there because I would have taken 3 damage on the return trip. What this leads to is very safe play, where often you are dancing around enemies trying to wait for the right combination of cards to happen into your hand. And every turn you waste, you end up losing a coin to spend on card and heart upgrades. There are multiple turns where all I end up doing is moving to the next safe square. Even the concept of blight is all about limiting your options as the game progesses.