## Unity's Input System
Today I was trying to get Playstation controls working for [[When Push Comes to Shove]], and holy shit what a nightmare. In the end, it wasn't even that crazy of a solution; I had to add a new control scheme specifically for playstations.
### Multiple Ways to Play
Probably in the hopes of lots and lots of flexibility, there are like 15 different ways of using the input system. You can join manually, you can join with button press, you can join via event, and then you can set the events manaully for actions, or it can send messages, or all sorts of things. As such, its really hard to find any good help online because everyone is doing it in a slightly different way that just won't work for you. Of course input is a tough problem, but their solution of like cascading amounts of API support just doesn't work well, especially when paired with no documentation. The reason I didn't check to see if you needed a control scheme for playstation was that ActionMaps don't actually need a control scheme to work! They only need to find a valid one if there are control schemes defined. 
### Unity's Blackbox
This shit drives me bonkers man. I was running into an issue where because it wouldn't find a proper control scheme, it would join the device, and then immediately leave it. No warning saying "Oh by the way, couldn't find a control scheme". Not like its listed anywhere on documentation. Just a total black box, so I've got to just slowly trial and error my way through things. Absolutely infruriating, and actually something I deal with at my job quite often. Maybe I should think about strategies of working with black boxes.