## General Underperformance
---
This past week in general has been marred with an underperformance in most aspects of life. Felt sluggish, didn't get much done at work, felt weak socially, more reliant on social media, and probably most pronounced of all tons of [[Analysis Paralysis]]. It may be stress, as it sort of feels like these past weeks have been alot; my right eye has developed a twitch. Its always hard to tell because I rarely feel stressed until after the fact, and I may have gotten a random twitch, assumed it must be stress, and then consequently stressed myself out.  One thing that seems pretty undeniable is that its definitely a cycle, one bad thing leads to another and another and another. 
### Social Media
Something I had noticed about this week was that I had spent alot of time scrolling social media again. Not nearly as much as before, but still more than previous weeks. I think I stopped making the concious decision I was making upon seeing the one sec screen, and just waiting it out. Being continually intentional is likely neccessary to keep up my progress on using less social media
### Analysis Paralysis
I had sat down to play a game (granted I was high), and spent about an hour and a half deliberating over whether to play Civ or Dragon Quest. That is just totally ridiculous. Another time I spent 20 minutes thinking about what kind of coat I should wear. I always spend a good portion of the day deciding if I should go to the barn or not. Making a decision and sticking to it has been really hard for me recently and I am really not sure why.
## On the up and up
---
All that being said, today I am doing much much better. Was very productive at work, I have been looking into [[Flow State (Unwritten)]] recently, trying to decide how much of it I believe. Even without really entering something I would define as flow, just by really trying to focus and stay rooted to my chair I got a lot done. One big thing I tried to work on was [[Task Transitions]]. Trying to ensure that I don't get up, take a walk, check social media, etc between tasks and immediately move on to the next task was pretty helpful imo.